---
layout: post
title:  "Taste"
date:   2023-01-24 19:40:25 +0800
categories: jekyll update
---
I attended a seminar on paper writing last month, and I found the presenter use the material from a professor of another university. After the seminar, I tried to find the author and find some interesting things.
- The professor claimed [his students should not cooperate with anyone whose code is not open source](https://mmcheng.net/)
- The professor defined [DOCX initiative](https://mmcheng.net/docx/) which calls for translate English to Chinese for helping more Chinese researchers.

There is no doubt he is more professional in research than me, but I have to say I donot think it is a good taste.
- Open source is a trend, however, you cannot evaluate a paper or a person only by whether the source code is publicly available. Meanwhile, I think not all open source code is helpful for the community.
- I donnot think translating the main idea of a paper into Chinese is a good idea. If a researcher cannot understand English paper well, I donot think he is worth of further help. I donot think English is better than Chinese, but openness is mandatory for a top researcher.
- I donot like the abbreviation, which is same as the suffix of Microsoft Word. Though Microsoft tried its best to embracing open source in the past decade, but I donot think the open source community fully accept Microsoft, especially for its early product.

In a word, I think I have a totally different taste. Even there are a lot of good material provided by Professor Cheng, I still donot want to read it any more.
